Integration documentation reworked (#5097)
WeblateOrg/weblate: docs/devel/integration.rst

Importing localization project into Weblate
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

> Weblate has been developed with VCS integration in mind as it’s core feature, so the easiest way is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Weblate has been developed with VCS integration in mind as it’s core feature, so the easiest way is
```

> to grant Weblate the access to your repository. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to grant Weblate the access to your repository.
```

The import process will guide you through configuring your translations into components.

Alternatively, you can use Weblate to set up a local repository containing
all the translations without integration.

.. seealso::

   :ref:`adding-projects`,
   :ref:`faq-submodule`

Fetching updated translations from Weblate

> +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reviewer: ```suggestion
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```

To fetch updated strings from Weblate, you can simply fetch the underlying Git
repository (either from filesystem, or it can be made available through
:ref:`git-exporter`). Prior to this, you might want to commit any pending
changes (see :ref:`lazy-commit`). You can do so in the user interface
(in the :guilabel:`Repository maintenance`) or from the command line using :ref:`wlc`.

This can be automated if you grant Weblate push access to your repository and
configure :ref:`component-push` in the :ref:`component`.

Alternateively, you can use :doc:`/api` to update translations
to match their latest version.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`continuous-translation`

Fetching remote changes into Weblate

> +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reviewer: ```suggestion
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```

Importing localization project into Weblate
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

You can use a version-control system to hold your translations.
The process of importing you project into Weblate will guide you through
configuring your components and translations.

Alternatively, you can use Weblate to set up a local repository containing
all the translations.

.. seealso::

   :ref:`adding-projects`,
   :ref:`faq-submodule`

Send string changes to Weblate
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Your Weblate project should already be set up to pull changes from the upstream
repository. If not, it can be done in the user interface
(in the :guilabel:`Repository maintenance`) or from the command-line
using :ref:`wlc`.

This can be automated by installing a webhook on your repository to trigger
Weblate whenever there is a new commit, see :ref:`update-vcs` for more details.

Alternateively, you can use the UI or :doc:`/api` to update translations
to match the latest version of what it is you want to translate.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`continuous-translation`

> Fetch changes made in Weblate

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Fetch changes made in Weblate
```

Importing localization project into Weblate
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

You can either use a version-control system to hold your translations,

> by granting Weblate access to it, and follow the guide to configure your

Author: ```suggestion
by granting Weblate access to it, and letting it guide you through configuring your
```

components
and translations.

Alternatively, you can use Weblate to set up a local repository with all the
translations.

.. seealso::

   :ref:`adding-projects`,
   :ref:`faq-submodule`

> Send string changes to Weblate
> +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send string changes to Weblate
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```

Your Weblate project should already be set up to pull changes from the upstream
repository. If not, it can be done in the user interface
(in the :guilabel:`Repository maintenance`) or from the command-line
using :ref:`wlc`.

This can be automated by installing a webhook on your repository to trigger
Weblate whenever there is a new commit, see :ref:`update-vcs` for more details.

Alternateively, you can use the UI or :doc:`/api` to update translations
to match the latest version of what it is you want to translate.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`continuous-translation`

>     

Reviewer: Another lint issue: 

```suggestion

```

    
Fetch changes made in Weblate
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Weblate represents a branch from your VCS upstream that you can fetch changed
strings from just like any other.

> Either fetch the filesystem, or use :ref:`git-exporter`). Commit any pending

Reviewer: Closing bracket should not be here:

```suggestion
Either fetch the filesystem, or use :ref:`git-exporter`. Commit any pending
```

Fetch changes made in Weblate
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Weblate represents a branch from your version control system upstream that
you can fetch changed strings from just like any other.

Either fetch the filesystem, or use :ref:`git-exporter`. Commit any pending
changes first (see :ref:`lazy-commit`) from the user interface
(in the :guilabel:`Repository maintenance`) or from the command-line
using :ref:`wlc`.

> Automation is possible by granting the Weblate user (available for various
> version control systems) push access to your repository and configuring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automation is possible by granting the Weblate user (available on various
code hosting sites) push access to your repository and configuring
```

Author: I even read this the wrong way around to comply with what I thought I wrote ;)

Adding new strings
++++++++++++++++++

In case your translation files are stored in VCS together with the code,
you most likely have existing workflow for developers to introduce new strings.

> You might extend it by using 

Reviewer: Incomplete sentence?

Any way of adding strings will be picked up, but consider using
:ref:`source-quality-gateway` to avoid also introducing errors.

> When the translation files are separate, there needs to be a way to introduce

Author: separate from?

Reviewer: Not sure ... it probably should have been standalone. This paragraph talks about having translation files not in the VCS repository with the code and managing it externally.

Author: ```suggestion
When the translation files are not in a upstream repository, there needs to be a way to introduce
```

> new strings.

Reviewer: The link to bi/mono-lingual format is gone...

Author: It is a bit farther down. I seem to have thought there are different rules for the API…

Reviewer: It is not related to the API, but is general Weblate limitation (for now).

Reviewer 2: I rewrote this again as all three options are monolingual only.

* Manually, using :guilabel:`Add new translation string` from :guilabel:`Tools`
  menu on the translation language used as the source for others.
  (Only works for monolingual translations :ref:`bimono`)
* Alternatively, you can use the API

> :http:post:`/api/translations/(string:project)/(string:component)/(string:language)/units/`.

Reviewer: Missing indentation: 

```suggestion
  :http:post:`/api/translations/(string:project)/(string:component)/(string:language)/units/`.
```

* It is also possible to just upload a new source file as

> :guilabel:`Replace existing translation file`
>  (this overwrites existing strings, so make sure the file includes both old

Reviewer: Missing indentation:

```suggestion
  :guilabel:`Replace existing translation file`
  (this overwrites existing strings, so make sure the file includes both old
```

>   

Reviewer: Lint fix:

```suggestion
```
